When angry, count four; when very angry, swear.
I have been studying the traits and dispositions of the "lower animals" (so called) and contrasting them with the traits and dispositions of man. I find the result humiliating to me.
What's the use you learning to do right, when it's troublesome to do right and ain't no trouble to do wrong, and the wages is just the same?
All kings is mostly rapscallions.
"Classic." A book which people praise and don't read.
To string incongruities and absurdities together in a wandering and sometimes purposeless way, and seem innocently unaware that they are absurdities, is the basis of the American art, if my position is correct.
The common eye sees only the outside of things, and judges by that, but the seeing eye pierces through and reads the heart and the soul, finding there capacities which the outside didn't indicate or promise, and which the other kind couldn't detect.
In order to make a man or a boy covet a thing, it is only necessary to make the thing difficult to obtain.
Whoever has lived long enough to find out what life is, knows how deep a debt of gratitude we owe to Adam, the first great benefactor of our race. He brought death into the world.
Do not put off till tomorrow what can be put off till day-after-tomorrow just as well.
Everybody talks about the weather, but nobody does anything about it.
Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear -- not absence of fear.
Good breeding consists in concealing how much we think of ourselves and how little we think of the other person.
Government is merely a servant – merely a temporary servant; it cannot be its prerogative to determine what is right and what is wrong, and decide who is a patriot and who isn’t. Its function is to obey orders, not originate them.
The radical invents the views. When he has worn them out the conservative adopts them.
There are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and statistics.
It were not best that we should all think alike; it is difference of opinion that makes horse races.
Truth is mighty and will prevail. There is nothing the matter with this, except that it ain't so.
The elastic heart of youth cannot be compressed into one constrained shape long at a time.
The humorous story is told gravely; the teller does his best to conceal the fact that he even dimly suspects that there is anything funny about it.
Don't put off till tomorrow what can be put off till day-after-tomorrow just as well.
Golf is a good walk spoiled.
The holy passion of friendship is so sweet and steady and loyal and enduring in nature that it will last through a whole lifetime, if not asked to lend money.
Its name is Public Opinion. It is held in reverence. It settles everything. Some think it is the voice of God.
When we remember that we are all mad, the mysteries disappear and life stands explained.
Put all your eggs in one basket -- and watch that basket!
The secret source of humor itself is not joy but sorrow. There is no humor in heaven.
Against the assault of laughter nothing can stand.
The very ink with which all history is written is merely fluid prejudice.
Travel is fatal to prejudice, bigotry, and narrow-mindedness, and many of our people need it sorely on these accounts.
After a few months’ acquaintance with European “coffee,” one’s mind weakens, and his faith with it, and he begins to wonder if the rich beverage of home, with its clotted layer of yellow cream on top of it, is not a mere dream after all, and a thing which never existed.
Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect.
Grief can take care of itself; but to get the full value of a joy you must have someone to divide it with.
The lack of money is the root of all evil.
It is better to have old second-hand diamonds than none at all.
Don't part with your illusions. When they are gone, you may still exist, but you have ceased to live.
Clothes make the man. Naked people have little or no influence in society.
There is no distinctly native American criminal class except Congress.
Training is everything. The peach was once a bitter almond; cauliflower is nothing but cabbage with a college education.
Familiarity breeds contempt -- and children.
When a humorist ventures upon the grave concerns of life he must do his job better than another man or he works harm to his cause.
What a man wants with religion in these breadless times, surpasses my comprehension.
I always did hate for anyone to know what my plans or hopes or prospects were—for, if I kept people in ignorance in these matters, no one could be disappointed but myself, if they were not realized.
Men are easily dealt with—but when you get the women started, you are in for it, you know.
We chase phantoms half the days of our lives. It is well if we learn wisdom even then, and save the other half.
The very ink with which all history is written is merely fluid prejudice.
Who would find out that I am a natural fool if I kept always cool and never let nature come to the surface? Nobody.
Ah, well, I am a great and sublime fool. But then I am God's fool, and all His works must be contemplated with respect.
my mind changes often ... People who have no mind can easily be steadfast and firm, but when a man is loaded down to the guards with it, as I am, every heavy sea of foreboding or inclination, maybe of indolence, shifts the cargo.
I would rather have my ignorance than another man's knowledge, because I have got so much more of it.
My interest in my work dies a sudden and violent death when the work is done.
People who always feel jolly, no matter where they are or what happens to them—who have the organ of hope preposterously developed—who are endowed with an uncongealable sanguine temperament—who never feel concerned about the price of corn—and who cannot, by any possibility, discover any but the bright side of a picture—are very apt to go to extremes, and exaggerate with 40-horse microscopic power.
I am as prompt as a clock, if I only know the day a thing is wanted—otherwise I am a natural procrastinaturalist.
Many a small thing has been made large by the right kind of advertising.
Words are only painted fire; a look is the fire itself.
It is by the goodness of God that in our country we have those three unspeakably precious things: freedom of speech, freedom of conscience, and the prudence never to practice either.
Denial ain't just a river in Egypt.
Human nature is the same everywhere; it deifies success, it has nothing but scorn for defeat.
Patriotism is merely a religion--love of country, worship of country, devotion to the country's flag and honor and welfare.
Spiritual wants and instincts are as various in the human family as are physical appetites, complexions, and features, and a man is only at his best, morally, when he is equipped with the religious garment whose color and shape and size most nicely accomodate themselves to the spiritual complexion, angularities, and stature of the individual who wears it.
Low comedies are written for the drawing-room, the kitchen and the stable, and if you cut out the kitchen and the stable the drawing-room can't support the play by itself.
In truth I care little about any party's politics—the man behind it is the important thing.
I never made a success of a lecture delivered in a church yet. People are afraid to laugh in a church. They can't be made to do it in any possible way.
I was afraid of a united Church; it makes a mighty power, the mightiest conceivable, and then when it by and by gets into selfish hands, as it is always bound to do, it means death to human liberty and paralysis to human thought.
The secret of success is making your vocation your vacation.
In my experience, previously counted chickens never do hatch.
O, Switzerland! the further it recedes into the enriching haze of time, the more intolerably delicious the charm of it and the cheer of it and the glory and majesty and solemnity and pathos of it grow. Those mountains had a soul; they thought; they spoke,—one couldn't hear it with the ears of the body, but what a voice it was!—and how real. Deep down in my memory it is sounding yet.
God only exhibits his thunder and lightning at intervals, and so they always command attention.
Drag your thoughts away from your troubles — by the ears, by the heels, or any other way, so you manage it.
Lord, what an organ is human speech when it is played by a master!
Unexpected money is a delight. The same sum is a bitterness when you expected more.
In the beginning of a change, the patriot is a scarce man, and brave, and hated and scorned. When his cause succeeds, the timid join him, for then it costs nothing to be a patriot.
There are no grades of vanity, there are only grades of ability in concealing it.
I was sorry to have my name mentioned as one of the great authors, because they have a sad habit of dying off. Chaucer is dead, Spencer is dead, so is Milton, so is Shakespeare, and I’m not feeling so well myself.
I have been complimented many times and they always embarrass me; I always feel that they have not said enough.
There is no God, no universe, no human race, no earthly life, no heaven, no hell. It is all a Dream, a grotesque and foolish dream. Nothing exists but you. And You are but a Thought — a vagrant Thought, a useless Thought, a homeless Thought, wandering forlorn among the empty eternities.
To create man was a fine and original idea; but to add the sheep was a tautology.
The difference between the almost right word and the right word is really a large matter—'tis the difference between the lightning-bug and the lightning.
Humor is the great thing, the saving thing. The minute it crops up, all our hardnesses yield, all our irritations and resentments flit away and a sunny spirit takes their place.
I must have a prodigious quantity of mind; it takes me as much as a week sometimes to make it up.
Heaven for climate, Hell for society.
A baby is an inestimable blessing and bother.
I am opposed to millionaires, but it would be dangerous to offer me the position.
A powerful agent is the right word. Whenever we come upon one of those intensely right words in a book or a newspaper the resulting effect is physical as well as spiritual, and electrically prompt.
There are those who imagine that the unlucky accidents of life—life's "experiences"—are in some way useful to us. I wish I could find out how. I never know one of them to happen twice. They always change off and swap around and catch you on your inexperienced side.
H'aint we got all the fools in town on our side? And ain't that a big enough majority in any town?
Nothing that grieves us can be called little: by the eternal laws of proportion a child's loss of a doll and a king's loss of a crown are events of the same size.
The kernel, the soul — let us go further and say the substance, the bulk, the actual and valuable material of all human utterances — is plagiarism. For substantially all ideas are second-hand, consciously and unconsciously drawn from a million outside sources, and daily used by the garnerer with a pride and satisfaction born of the superstition that he originated them; whereas there is not a rag of originality about them anywhere except the little discoloration they get from his mental and moral calibre and his temperament, and which is revealed in characteristics of phrasing.
Get your facts first, and then you can distort them as much as you please.
Is not this insanity plea becoming rather common? Is it not so common that the reader confidently expects to see it offered in every criminal case that comes before the courts?... Really, what we want now, is not laws against crime, but a law against insanity.
Thousands of geniuses live and die undiscovered — either by themselves or by others.
You tell me whar a man gits his corn pone, en I'll tell you what his 'pinions is.
Be respectful to your superiors, if you have any.
Labor in loneliness is irksome.
Virtue never has been as respectable as money.
The citizen who thinks he sees that the commonwealth's political clothes are worn out, and yet holds his peace and does not agitate for a new suit, is disloyal, he is a traitor. That he may be the only one who thinks he sees this decay, does not excuse him: it is his duty to agitate anyway, and it is the duty of others to vote him down if they do not see the matter as he does.
A round man cannot be expected to fit in a square hole right away. He must have time to modify his shape.
The only reason why God created man is because he was disappointed with the monkey.
A man is never more truthful than when he acknowledges himself a liar.
A crowded police docket is the surest of all signs that trade is brisk and money plenty.
Laws are sand, customs are rock. Laws can be evaded and punishment escaped, but an openly transgressed custom brings sure punishment.
A circle is a round straight line with a hole in the middle.
Always acknowledge a fault frankly. This will throw those in authority off their guard and give you opportunity to commit more.
Soap and education are not as sudden as a massacre, but they are more deadly in the long run.
A man cannot be comfortable without his own approval.
Self-approval is acquired mainly from the approval of other people.
The sole impulse which dictates and compels a man's every act: the imperious necessity of securing his own approval, in every emergency and at all costs.... It is our only spur, our whip, our goad, our impelling power; we have no other.
The air up there in the clouds is very pure and fine, bracing and delicious. And why shouldn't it be? --it is the same the angels breathe.
In Paris they just simply opened their eyes and stared when we spoke to them in French! We never did succeed in making those idiots understand their own language.
There is no God, no universe, no human race, no earthly life, no heaven, no hell. It is all a dream, a grotesque and foolish dream. Nothing exists but you. And you are but a thought--a vagrant thought, a useless thought, a homeless thought, wandering forlorn among the empty eternities!
It will take mind and memory months and possibly years to gather together the details and thus learn and know the whole extent of the loss.
The trouble ain't that there is too many fools, but that the lightning ain't distributed right.
